README.md, before:

# @telosh/filetree

A command-line tool to display the file tree of a specified directory.

## Installation

Install the package globally using npm:

```bash
npm install -g @telosh/filetree
```

## Usage

```bash
filetree [dirPath] [options]
```

- `dirPath`: The directory path to display the tree structure for. Defaults to the current directory (`.`).

## Options

| Option                | Alias | Description                                                              | Default                   |
|-----------------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| `--level <depth>`     | `-L`  | Descend only `<depth>` levels in the directory tree.                      | `Infinity`                |
| `--output <filepath>` | `-o`  | Write output to a file in Markdown format.                                | Output to console         |
| `--exclude <dirs>`    | `-e`  | Comma-separated list of directory names to exclude.                       | `node_modules,.git`       |
| `--icons`               | `-i`    | Display icons for files and directories.                                   | Off                       |
| `--version`           |       | Display the version number.                                              |                           |
| `--help`              |       | Display help for the command.                                            |                           |

## Examples

1.  **Display the tree structure of the current directory:**

    ```bash
    filetree
    ```

2.  **Display the tree structure of a specific directory (e.g., `src`):**

    ```bash
    filetree src
    ```

3.  **Display the tree structure up to 2 levels deep:**

    ```bash
    filetree -L 2
    ```

4.  **Exclude `node_modules` and `dist` directories:**

    ```bash
    filetree -e node_modules,dist
    ```

5.  **Save the output to a Markdown file (e.g., `tree.md`):**

    ```bash
    filetree -o tree.md
    ```

6.  **Display the tree structure with icons:**

    ```bash
    filetree -i
    ```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update version to 0.0.7, add metadata display options, and enhance README with new features
- Bumped package version to 0.0.7 in package.json.
- Introduced new options in tree-cli.ts: `--metadata`, `--size-only`, `--size-unit`, and `--use-gitignore` for enhanced file information display.
- Updated README.md to document the new options and provide usage examples for displaying file metadata and sizes.

README.md, after:

# @telosh/filetree

A command-line tool to display the file tree of a specified directory.

## Installation

Install the package globally using npm:

```bash
npm install -g @telosh/filetree
```

## Usage

```bash
filetree [dirPath] [options]
```

- `dirPath`: The directory path to display the tree structure for. Defaults to the current directory (`.`).

## Options

| Option                | Alias | Description                                                              | Default                   |
|-----------------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| `--level <depth>`     | `-L`  | Descend only `<depth>` levels in the directory tree.                      | `Infinity`                |
| `--output <filepath>` | `-o`  | Write output to a file in Markdown format.                                | Output to console         |
| `--exclude <dirs>`    | `-e`  | Comma-separated list of directory names to exclude.                       | `node_modules,.git`       |
| `--icons`               | `-i`    | Display icons for files and directories.                                   | Off                       |
| `--metadata`            | `-m`  | Display file metadata (size, last modified date).                        | Off                       |
| `--size-only`         |       | Display only file size in metadata (requires `--metadata`).              | Off                       |
| `--size-unit <unit>`  |       | Specify size unit for metadata (B, KB, MB, GB).                            | `B`                       |
| `--use-gitignore`     |       | Automatically exclude files and directories found in `.gitignore`.         | Off                       |
| `--version`           |       | Display the version number.                                              |                           |
| `--help`              |       | Display help for the command.                                            |                           |

## Examples

1.  **Display the tree structure of the current directory:**

    ```bash
    filetree
    ```

2.  **Display the tree structure of a specific directory (e.g., `src`):**

    ```bash
    filetree src
    ```

3.  **Display the tree structure up to 2 levels deep:**

    ```bash
    filetree -L 2
    ```

4.  **Exclude `node_modules` and `dist` directories:**

    ```bash
    filetree -e node_modules,dist
    ```

5.  **Save the output to a Markdown file (e.g., `tree.md`):**

    ```bash
    filetree -o tree.md
    ```

6.  **Display the tree structure with icons:**

    ```bash
    filetree -i
    ```

7.  **Display the tree structure with metadata (size and last modified date):**

    ```bash
    filetree -m
    ```

8.  **Display the tree structure with only file sizes in KB:**

    ```bash
    filetree -m --size-only --size-unit KB
    ```

9.  **Display the tree structure, excluding files and directories from `.gitignore`:**

    ```bash
    filetree --use-gitignore
    ```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
